hi everyone laszlo Montgomery hair the
Shanghai ningbo trip is now behind me
just got back but whilst in ningbo with
all my peoples I received a directive
from high on up to be in Hong Kong for
in october sixth meeting with another
big American retailer so I'm not home
for long and the way it's looking this
month I'm not going to be in good ol
Claremont much at all so the next few
weeks are going to be in a word dicey
for the China history podcast today I
wanted to go back in time a little we've
been sort of hanging around modern times
too much it's been a good three months
since that episode 47 on jung shin the
Han Dynasty adventurer and as ancient
times go there's still a lot more
ancient times than behind so I thought
let's break away from these modern times
and push the dial back all the way to
the beginnings of the Cho dynasty when
you combine the Western and Eastern Joe
you have about seven hundred ninety
years longest dynasty in Chinese history
and let me put air quotes around the
word longest the person we're going to
focus on today and give his do is the
Duke of Joe Joe comb he lived from the
time period of the 12th century BC
roughly 1100 BC thirty one hundred years
ago this would be a little before the
time of King David and a little after
Nebuchadnezzar I mean we're talking a
long time ago today we circle back to
episode number 16 and take a closer
in-depth look at the Duke of Joe if you
recall from that episode the first
dynasty from which we have rock-solid
evidence of their existence and history
was the Shang the Shang Dynasty Shang
chow they enjoyed a good six centuries
before they were overthrown by the state
of joke and we see in China the first
example of the Mandate of Heaven and how
it all worked the Shang had declined in
all ways and had lost heavens favor and
therefore king one of Joe and later his
son
King Wu overthrew the Shang and then in
10 46 BC the Joe dynasty begins we
credit the Duke of Joe with formulating
this whole concept of the Mandate of
Heaven the tian ming in the pantheon of
Chinese emperors king one Jowan Wong and
his son King Wu Joey Wang both ranked
very very highly these were two leaders
who history is looked kindly on as the
perfect embodiment of ability wisdom and
bravery on the battlefield you've all
heard of the eaching this is one of the
most sacred texts and all of Chinese
literature it's sort of a guide to
divination and how to interpret all
kinds of natural things this was written
by King one of Joe King one who gave us
the eaching and once again to remind you
King one didn't live to see the Battle
of muya in 1046 where the evil shang
dynasty king joe xin went down in defeat
spelling the end of the Xiang King when
Sun King Wu as I said was the victor on
that fateful day and then you have the
establishment of the Joe dynasty from
which so much of what was great about
China sprang forth this is where we can
see it all start to happen right before
our eyes King one is revered for
co-founding the Joe dynasty and for
giving us the iching so now our story
begins this revered King and Joe dynasty
founder Joey Wang son of wen wang he
didn't live too long after he founded
the dynasty in 1046 almost three years
after he overthrows the last shang
dynasty king he himself meets his maker
he's gone all too soon fortunately king
when had another son this was king was
younger brother and this was the Duke of
Joe now Kings one and woo they both
always make the list of China's greatest
kings and emperors but they are both
eclipsed in history by the Duke of Joe
if you would stroll through the Chinese
history Hall of Fame and you had to pick
out the most revered historical person
of all
you might think while Confucius but
Confucius in his lifetime had already
deferred to the Duke of Joe as his
inspiration the Duke of Joe not a king
not an emperor not even a leader in the
technical sense he was what's known as a
regent you see the way the Shang Kings
did it when their kings died the throne
went to his brother assuming he had one
the way that Joe Kings did it the throne
passed the Sun so when King Wu dies
three years into the new dynasty all he
has to show for himself as a young son
the new king Chun who was by no means
old enough or wise enough to lead his
people especially so early in the
ballgame the Xiang were defeated but it
probably wouldn't be too hard to make a
comeback against a young pup on the
throne who was hardly a when or a woman
and this is where the Duke of Joe comes
in he was the eternal man who said what
he meant and meant what he said he
seized power as the uncle of the new
king who was still in his minority and
he fought off all the wolves who moved
in on the young lamb protected the
rightful heir to the throne the second
of the Cho Dynasty Kings and when the
boy becomes a man was ready to assume
his role as king the Duke of Joe
dutifully steps aside and retires to an
advisory role in that political act Joe
cone is revered almost like no other
person in all of China's millennia of
history world history is so chock full
of stories of bloody transitions of
power it almost seems like the norm in
Joe Kong China had a great wise virtuous
man who knew how to command man protect
the realm and through his own actions
served as a role model for everyone so
let's focus in on what else was
attributed to Joe Kong and why when you
look at the entirety of his contribution
to Chinese civilization does Confucius
say the immortal words and his Anna
lacks shunyi whoosh why yeah Joey woo
fufu monk in which
and so many words says I must be
slipping how long it has been since I
have dreamt of the duke of joe this is
interpreted to mean confucius himself
the most revered of the revered showing
deference to this great man Joe Kohn now
the way it worked when the Joe took over
that's when the whole feudalism things
started the King doled out hereditary
fiefdom to all the guys who stood by his
side and helped him bring the Xiang down
the Duke of Joe being family and all he
was given a fiefdom as well this one in
the town of present dates you fool this
town served as the capital of the state
of lu and it was this state that was
given to the Duke of joe however joe
going did not stay here he stayed close
by the side of his brother King Wu all
the way until the King died and then of
course he becomes the region for King Wu
son Qing Chun so although he was
technically the duke of lu lu being his
patrimonial state because he chose to be
at the capitol with his brother he was
known as the Duke of joe instead the
state of lu is one of the most
historically important lands in all of
ancient China this is where Confucius
was born so this was the hereditary
fiefdom of the duke of joe and like all
the joe kings he was surnamed g his name
was g done his brother King Wu was chief
ah and king one was ji chang and they
were all of the Joe clan but they were
all surnamed G all the joke Kings all
the way to the very end all of the G
family so Joe gone he was also known as
Joe gong dong Sudan and Joe Don in these
ancient days of three and more millennia
ago sacrifices and rituals were quite
important these sure g or records of the
grand historian enumerates a number of
instances where the Duke of Joe was
intimately involved in the minutia of
all the rituals and directing how the
sacrifices should be made especially
with the rights and whatnot associated
with the transition of power from Xiong
to Joe
and so it was the Duke of Joe seized
power and began his Regency and sure
enough there were revolts against Joe
Gong other of the Joe Prince's jealous
for the throne collaborated with
defeated Shang Dynasty remnants to
challenge the Duke of Joe's sincerity
after all no one ever actually believes
it when someone claims temporary
leadership until the king is old enough
to come into his own the way the story
always seems to play out is someone sees
his power in the name of the infant or
boy king and then in no time at all the
kid dies mysteriously or sometimes not
so mysteriously so the Duke of Joe he
puts down all these revolts and brought
peace to the land but of course while he
was away defending his nephew qing chun
suspicions at the royal court starts to
flow there was lots of loose talk going
around that the Duke of Joe was indeed
going to do what everyone suspected and
usurp the throne Qing Chun gets wind of
it of course and a doubt is placed in
his mind but time and again Joe Gong
sincerity is tested and without
exception in every situation we see Joe
Cole selflessly making decisions and
without fail always acting in the young
kings interests and the King time and
again seized with his own eyes the true
devotion and wisdom of his uncle and
just as he said he would Duke of Joe
acted as the perfect regent ensuring
young Qing Chun was given the best
guidance and proper understanding of
everything that was demanded of a king
it was the Duke of Joe who taught Qing
Chun what the Mandate of Heaven was and
the importance of the King in this whole
sacred arrangement and during the
entirety of the period of Joe Kong's
Regency he worked tirelessly to
establish the dynasty and build a strong
long-lasting foundation for the king
little did the Duke of Joe know
at these foundations he was building
would last for thousands of years and
then just like that one day in 1035 bc
young qing chun was old enough and
trained enough to assume his role as
that king of the joe and as i mentioned
in podcast 16 like the more well-known
historical examples of Cincinnatus and
george washington the Duke of Joe takes
this ultimate power that he held in his
hands and with the greatest possible
dignitas and sincerity hands it back to
the sovereign and retires from his
temporary role and then goes on to serve
the King as a loyal advisor until his
death but it's not just for this that
joke Gong became such a revered person
from Chinese history for an encore as if
this wasn't enough he worked tirelessly
as an advisor to King Chun in this
supporting role the Duke of Joe for all
intents and purposes wrote the playbook
for how the whole central Joe government
should be set up and organized and all
the basic laws rituals and rites and of
course in those days who knew anything
for sure but the Duke of Joe Joe Cole
he's also credited with the notations
for the 64 hexagrams of the eaching they
had served as the sort of the Bible for
divining signs from heaven and what
certain things or forces meant and
remember it was king one who organized
the 64 hexagrams and his son the Duke of
Joe who took it one step further and
interpreted it and sort of finished off
the e Ching then Daoists and
spiritualists used this text him you
know various forms for the next few
thousand years you cannot imagine how
huge this is I mean especially in
Chinese folk culture doesn't seem like
much but it was very long-lasting he's
credited with the rights of Joe that
Jolie but probably he didn't write it it
makes up one of the three texts that
form the backbone of Chinese rituals and
etiquette Joe Gong is also credited with
the Yahoo yet this was the basic
foundation for all Chinese me
played at the court it meticulously
clarified which music was for which
ritual and how everything was supposed
to be played out they had minimalist
sound that sort of captures the essence
of ancient Chinese music it has its
roots hair in the Y and this is also
attributed to the Duke of Joe I know in
our modern days this sort of sounds like
a mere trifle and utterly unimportant
but in those days the attention that was
paid to all aspects of etiquette and
ritual it was pretty substantial and
music played no small role in almost
everything that went on in the Royal
Palace I think you'll find us
practically in every ancient culture
anywhere on earth by the way some
aspects of the Yaya we're still being
used as late as the Ching dynasty so as
i mentioned i want to stress a lot of
the things credited to the Duke of joe
and you know from his times had a very
long lasting impact on chinese culture
in fact some have even called joe gong
the father of Chinese culture there are
other things credited to the Duke of Joe
such as the first workable astronomical
observatory from which the most
important and earliest observations were
made of the all-important solstices Joe
Gong is also closely associated with
dreams and interpreting dreams people
dreamt 3,000 years ago same as we do
today in our modern times we understand
dreams a lot better but in Joe Kong's
time these were taken much more
seriously as signs from heaven or maybe
about things that may or may not happen
and so interpreting these dreams was a
very big deal and there had to be some
manual that served as a guide and so
just as Confucius dreamt of joe gong so
did the great Duke become associated
with dreams and even became a sort of a
god of dreams the ancient work known as
the joe gong chi among or joe gongs book
of auspicious dreams became the handbook
for interpreting dreams throughout
Chinese ancient history I remember when
I used to travel to China with this guy
he passed away
but it was a regular riot leecher goya
good old raymond Lee he used to say late
at night when it was time to turn in
that he was going to chew jo Jo Gong
Lord Shu zhengzhou gong I don't remember
but this essentially was his way of
saying at night that he was going to go
look for go see the Duke of Joe sort of
a Chinese way of saying it back because
you would soon be seeing Joe going in
your dreams when the Duke of Joe passed
from this earth he had made preparations
for his tomb to be near the capital of
law young so that he may be close to
Qing Chun and you know still serve him
in the afterlife but Qing Chun to show
his uncle the reverence he was due after
all Joe gone had done for him Qing Chun
had his uncle's tomb constructed instead
next to the founder of the dynasty king
one the the Dukes father in Qing Chun's
grandfather to do it this way allowed
Qing Chun to express the ultimate
respect that never did he once consider
the Duke of Joe as his subject and to
further heap honor and respect to the
Duke of Joe his state of lu was given
all kinds of special honors such that
might only be accorded to the royal
capital joking was revered throughout
chinese history and has been given the
greatest honor of being called the UN
chung or the first sage and in a culture
that's so honored and revered there
sages to be called the UN chung was
indeed quite an honor if you recall
during the Tang Dynasty episode when
moods attend seize power on the death of
her husband the Emperor she named her
brief dynasty dijo dynasty specifically
in honor of the Duke of joke in two
thousand four inch each on county
shaanxi province west of presentation on
chinese archaeologists chanced upon what
they believe is the tomb of joe cole
like many tombs such as those of Qin Shi
Huang and whitsett in it has yet to be
excavated but when the time is right and
the technology is advanced enough China
historians and scientists will determine
whether this is indeed the tomb of this
giant of Chinese history and culture and
that's all I have for you today my wise
and wonderful listeners as the pod
father himself Robert packet might say I
hope you enjoyed that things are going
to be touch-and-go for the entire month
of October but don't despair I'm still
going to try and find a way to keep this
going each week this is laszlo
Montgomery coming to you from lovely and
warm Claremont California join us next
time won't you for another exciting
episode of that China history podcast